often times an agency or marketer will
choose to upload their ads into a
third-party ad server instead of sending
the ads directly to the publisher so
what is a third-party ad server and why
do ad agencies use them simply put a
third-party ad server is a platform or
tool used to store and manage display
ads for online ad campaigns within the
tool an ad agency can set targeting
criteria for each ad performance goals
for the campaign and even run tests to
see which creative performs best there
are three main reasons for using an ad
server control the agency can specify
which ads can run on which website with
a third-party ad server it's easy to
update creatives messaging or even
search out offers you can make changes
to the ads and they'll update across all
web sites at a click of a button
targeting agencies can specify when the
ads should start and stop running and
also set more detailed targeting
criteria like the geographic areas where
the ads will show as well as the time of
day reporting the agency can have one
centralized place where they can view
reports on how the ads are performing
this is a whole lot easier than getting
different reports from each individual
website pretty great right so how does a
third-party ad server actually work
someone at the ad agency usually called
an ad trafficker or trafficker for short
uploads the ads lists all the ad space
their media buyer reserved and sets the
targeting criteria the display ads
remain stored on the ad server
and the ad trafficker sends the website
a piece of code it's called an ad tag
the website and serve this tag when they
want to show the agency's ad when the
publisher serves the ad tag a request is
sent back to the ad server the request
includes all targeting criteria so that
the most relevant ad will show for the
person viewing that website this process
of managing and controlling the ads is
what makes third-party ad servers so
popular
you